So now we are going to build this particular chatbot, as you are seeing over here in this particular
section.
So in order to achieve this operation, we first of all need to have a basic understanding of the Streamlit
app.
So if I just going to go to the Streamlit uh, over here, streamlit.io.
As you can see, this is the this is the library that we are going to be using for building our application
that I just showed you.
You see that it's very, very straightforward.
So if you just say like a straight line and the application name, then it's just going to open a browser
and then it is going to show this particular thing over there.
And you can also create the graphs and sliders and whatnot.
With this particular application.
It is so easy and straightforward.
So the the real purpose of this particular Streamlit Streamlit is that they wanted to streamline the
way that you write the code.
At the same time, they also wanted to make things happen in a much faster fashion so that you don't
just have to worry about like how the web browser application really has to be written, but you only
focus on writing the logic for your large language model based application.
So UI is not something that you have to worry about.
It's all about how you tweak your large language model to make that happen.
That is what this particular, uh, streamlet does.
And again, this course has something to do with the streamlet itself.
So I'm not going to be covering the basics of streamlet like how you need to install, how you need
to get started on all those things.
But since we have to do the installation and since we have to build an UI, something like this, I
will be covering the details in this particular area that you need to be understanding.
Right.
So let's start building it.
I mean, this is the final version of our Streamlet app because you have got the, uh, the sidebar,
as you can see over here.
And you can also like that, minimize it and maximize maximize it pretty much like the ChatGPT.
And also you will notice that there is this icons coming up over here.
So we need to do quite a lot of things over there.
So we'll go step by step in this particular section.
And I will show you how you can achieve all these operations.
All right so let's start writing the code over here.
So let me get back to my Visual Studio.
And over here I'm going to are just to minimize all these discussions that we were doing in our last
section.
Remember this chat with history message?
This is something very important for this particular section as well.
So I'm going to be copying most of the code from here.
While we're going to be building the, uh, the chat bot.
So these details that you are seeing over here are going to be quite relevant for our discussion as
well.
So we are not going to rule out any of these, uh, that we are seeing over here.
We are going to use the SQL chat message history this time instead of using the, uh, chat message
history, as you can see over here.
So this code is something very important for our discussion.
So what I'm going to do probably I'm going to copy this code right now.
And I'm going to create a new oh sorry not here but I'm going to create a new folder here.
And I'm going to say section for uh building chat bots.
Uh, and I'm going to create a new file.
But this time I'm going to say chatbot dot p y.
So basically we're not going to use the notebook this time, but we are going to be using directly the
Python code itself over here.
Right.
So I'm just going to save this entire thing.
And we also need to have what is called a Streamlit library within our the virtual environment.
So let me go ahead and install that.
So I'm going to open the terminal over here.
Um remember this is something that we did a long time before starting off the course.
So this is the same window which is coming up over here.
Um, and I'm going to say a pip install Streamlit, which is important for our, uh, building of the
application.
There we go.
So I have installed that over here.
So make sure that you install it.
If not, the things that we are going to be building right now is not going to work for you.
All right.
So now that I have installed it, we can just close this guy for now just to make some room and we can
start building the, uh, Streamlit app.
So to do that I'm going to say import Streamlit as st.
So this is the Streamlit importing that we have to do right?
And once we have done that, we are then going to start building the code.
So let's start with this.
The simple thing.
Probably.
So in order for us to start building the Streamlit app, the first thing which I wanted to have a look
at that I think we are missing some libraries here like runnable with message history, chat, prompt,
template and things.
So probably I need to go and copy some of these.
Uh, from here.
We don't need this, uh, base chat, okay?
These things are not required.
And hopefully.
Oh, yeah, I also need the LM.
You remember?
Because LM is something which is needed as well for our execution.
And we also need this dot env.
How do I forget all these things?
So let me go.
Copy that.
Uh, and let me go paste it over here.
Uh, and we also need to load the dot env file, uh, which is going to be uh and we also need this
chat olama which is required.
And we are going to be invoking this guy.
Awesome.
So hopefully we have got all the libraries that is required.
Yeah.
There is no error whatsoever like missing libraries, something like that.
Which is cool.
So yeah that's the library that we need.
So the first thing is what we did is load the env file and then initialize lm.
And we have the history and all those things.
So I'm not going to worry about it.
This is the exactly the same thing that we discussed in our last section.
So please go and watch the last section if you're directly jumping to this particular section, because
it won't make any sense if you have not really listened to the discussion that we had in our last section.
Pretty cool.
Uh, and now let's see what is the first thing that we are going to be building in this particular window
over here?
So the first thing is, for instance, I'm going to be I'm going to be probably writing something like
a title like Welcome to Chatbot or whatever.
And then I'm going to say enter your query for that matter.
Right.
So if I wanted to do that, what should I do.
So basically I'm going to add here some code.
So I'm going to say st dot and I'm going to write a title here.
And I'm going to say uh how can I help help you today.
So the title that I'm going to be asking, and then I'm going to write another thing over here, like
enter your query below or whatever, enter your query below, something like this.
And I'm going to just save this code, just two lines of code.
And if I open my terminal and in order for me to run this Streamlit app, we actually need to use this
command called as Streamlit and then run.
And we need to specify what exactly they're going to that we're going to be running.
So before I do that, let me navigate to the directory which is the building chatbot directory.
And over here I'm going to say Streamlit run of the chatbot dot pi.
So if I do that you'll notice that it is going to open an app.
And it is going to show me this particular window, see how can I help you today and enter your query
below.
So this is coming because we have added the details of the chatbots over here.
So that is that is what is coming over here.
So this is the Streamlit thing that we have just added.
And if I wanted to add probably let's say a chat input like what you just saw in my other window.
Uh, so I can actually do that as well.
So let me guess what.
These things are open for a long time.
Let me go and close these, these windows that we don't even need.
Um yeah I think this one is required.
This is Lang Smith and the session is somehow expired.
Yeah.
Cool.
So this can be opened there, and we don't even need this window.
So let just, just these two window can be in here.
Okay.
So if I want to add a chat over here.
So how do I actually do.
It is basically I'm just going to say um, maybe in the end over here because that's going to be the
last thing.
So I'm just going to say prompt um, is equal to uh s t dot chat input.
And I'm going to say enter your query, I'm going to save this.
And if I try to probably stop it and rerun this over here, looks like it's not working.
Maybe what's really happening there.
Um, yeah I think I know what is the problem.
So let me go stop this print, which is not even required.
Uh, and, and, and we also don't need to have this invocation, which is happening, uh, behind the
scene for me, like, every single time.
Because that's the reason why this code is actually running, uh, for me there.
Uh, which is cool.
So I'm going to save this and let me run this again.
Look at that.
So now you can see that immediately you are getting this, uh, chat, uh, message there.
I mean, the chat input there.
The reason why is because last time our code was actually working behind the scene, and it was giving
us the output result, like the distance between the moon and sun and the earth and sun like that.
Like that is not something that we are looking for.
Really?
Uh, that was from our previous section that we just copy pasted it.
So those invocation is not required.
So now you see that immediately we get the prompt over here.
And from the prompt is what we are going to be asking the query to our uh, large language model, uh,
as a invocation.
Right.
So, so we don't even require the two lines of code.
Look at that.
Now we have got a simple, uh, chatbot UI, like very super simple chatbot UI, uh, which we can start
building up from our next lecture.
But at least you have got the groundwork ready to start building a larger things.